[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: The next thing we
want to talk about is immutability.
Now, immutability, mutation,
immutability means non-mutation,
non ability to, non ability to mutate.
But this term evokes different
things in people's heads.
So I wanna show you one thing that
is strictly speaking immutability,
but isn't exactly the same thing as
what a functional programmer means
by immutability, okay.
So if I declare a variable called x,
if I say var x = 2,
when I try to change it as I do on line 2,
it's allowed.
But if I declare a constant,
const being a new keyword added
in the ES6 version of JavaScript.
And I try to change it on line five,
that will not be allowed.
If I'm in strict mode,
it'll throw an error.
If I'm in non-strict mode,
it'll simply ignore the operation and
not allow it to occur.
So a lot of people say, well,
const gives us immutable values.
And that's completely and utterly false.
The const keyword is not about
giving you immutable values.
It is about giving you
an immutable assignment,
or to be a little bit more programmer
speak about it, it's an immutable binding.
To a value.
So what we mean here is that Y can never
be reassigned to some other value.
But we're actually not saying anything
at all about the value itself
being unchangeable.
In fact in JavaScript primitives
are by definition immutable.
The value three can never actually
be changed to mean something
different than three.
And a string, even a string, we might
think of as being a mutable thing,
because you might think of, I could go and
change a character, no you can't.
Strings, primitive strings, are immutable,
primitive numbers are immutable,
primitive booleans are immutable, so the
const keyword actually has nothing to do
with declaring a mutable or
immutable value.
Any more than var does.
Var and
const are controlling the assignment, or
the binding of a variable
to some particular value.
This is illustrated on line seven.
I do const z and I give it some object.
Now, we know probably, most of you, that.
Variables that hold values, which
are non-symbol primitives, that's objects,
arrays, functions, those are always
held by reference, rather than by value.
So z is actually a reference to the array,
rather than holding array itself.
And what we're saying here is only
that z will never point to any other
array than exactly that array.
But we're not saying anything at
all about the nature of the array.
In fact, as we see, line eight would not
allow us to change z to point somewhere
else, even to a different array.
But we can reach into
the contents of z and
change them all day long
like we do on line nine.
So const is not declaring
an immutable array, it is declaring
an immutable variable called z bound
to that particular array by reference.
So I want to make sure
we clear that up and
I've written some blog posts about this
if you wanted to search on consts and
get a [INAUDIBLE],
you'll find a blog post about that but
it's really important not to allow those
two things to get messed up in your mind.
If I wanted to declare an immutable array,
it turns out there is another
utility which is Object.freeze.
Object.freeze the utility
built in as of ES5.
It reaches into an object, and
at the shallow level only, that is
the top level of all of its properties, it
makes all of those properties Read Only.
In an array, that means all of its
numerically indexed positions.
In an object,
it means all of its named Properties.
It makes all of those property
assignments read only.
It's kind of like applying const to
each of those properties retroactively.
It makes the properties
themselves bound immutably.
But it doesn't say anything at all about
the values that they're pointing to.
So if I had an array with
an array inside of it
It's not gonna make the array
inside of it frozen.
It's just simply gonna say that array has
to always be in that particular position
in the outer array.
So object.freeze is the way of
doing shallow immutability.
If you want more sophisticated
immutability, there are all kinds a,
there are several really,
really good libraries.
Some stuff that has come out of
the closure script world, and Facebook.
There's an immutable,
I forget exactly what it's called.
But there's an immutable data structures
library written in JavaScript that
gives you immutability by default.
It's very powerful, very useful.
But I just want you to know that the built
in language utilities are really not
quite exactly the same thing
as what's meant by those.
Const is all about immutable binding,
an immutable assignment is really
the best way to think about it.
An object that freezes
about a shallow set of
immutable bindings at the property level.
Yes?
>> Audience: So
other than objects of threes
is making it computable.
So what is really there?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah,
that's a fantastic question.
The question is if object dot freeze is
all about making the value immutable,
what is const doing.
Const is saying that W will always and
forever.
Without any chance of being incorrect,
it will always point to that exact array.
So I cannot do line 12, I am not
allowed to make w point somewhere else.
That's all counts the same.
Now just as a side note since you brought
up the question, between the two,
between making the value itself immutable,
and making the binding immutable.
Are there different
value propositions here,
are there different benefits to our code?
Many people are of the opinion that
the benefit of cost is gigantic
in their program because their concern
seems to be I don't know whether or
not a variable's gonna get changed.
But I actually think
that that's completely
a mischaracterization of the issue.
Cuz I actually think the real problem
that we have is not that our bindings
are getting change but there are values
are getting change out from underneath us.
And here's why.
Cuz bindings are always localized.
There always within the program that you
can see immediately in front of you.
Even if it's a thousand lines
long it's always within
the program that you can see.
And you can lexically analyze it,
values are portable.
They can be shipped elsewhere and
if you can ship a value elsewhere and
somebody can change that value
that's a much bigger problem.
That's an action at a distance problem.
So in the world of immutability,
immutable bindings to me are not
all that useful or interesting.
Immutability values are a lot
more interesting and
const has nothing to say about that.